Derivatives Risk and Operations - East West Bank

About the job

Overview

We are seeking a highly motivated and detail‑oriented professional to join our Corporate Derivatives and Foreign Exchange team. This role is ideal for someone with strong analytical skills, a deep understanding of derivatives and financial markets, and demonstrated experience working across legal, credit, operations, and risk functions. The successful candidate will play a critical role in supporting front‑to‑back processes for traded products and validating and upholding key risk controls for the business.

The position will be located in the Pasadena office. Title and compensation will be determined based on skill and experience.

Responsibilities

 Facilitate counterparty onboarding and pre-trade checks. 
 Manage and prepare trading agreements including ISDAs and FX Agreements. 
 Review completed documentation and record relevant terms as part of onboarding and recordkeeping procedures. 
 Perform post-trade validation and reconcile portfolio details for accuracy. 
 Perform model validation and independent price verification. 
 Review and implement capital markets related SOX controls. 
 Manage Audit and RCSA requests, including trade sampling and documentation support 
 Produce and review periodic risk reporting and financial reporting. 
 Collaborate with legal, operations, and business partners to ensure adherence to internal policies, regulatory standards, and industry best practices 
 May perform other duties as assigned 

Qualifications

 3+ years of relevant experience in derivatives operations or risk with a strong knowledge of derivatives products, and valuation drivers 
 Proficiency in SQL and Python 
 Strong analytical, problem-solving, communication, and detail-orientation skills 
 Expertise in regulatory compliance, risk mitigation, and financial industry best practices. 
 Ability to collaborate effectively with internal stakeholders, including legal, credit, risk, and business team 

Applicants must have legal authorization to work in the United States. We do not offer visa sponsorship at this time.

Compensation

The base pay range for this position is USD $71,000.00/Yr. - USD $85,000.00/Yr. Exact offers will be determined based on job-related knowledge, skills, experience, and location.